MBS-7948 create CI Steps plugin tasks dynamically (#388)
avito-tech/avito-android: docs/content/docs/projects/CiSteps.md

---
title: CI steps plugin
type: docs
---

# CI steps plugin

{{< hint warning>}}
Plugin wasn't tested outside Avito yet, so expect difficulties, or even blockers.
However, if you interested, please [contact us]({{< ref "/docs/Contacts.md" >}})!

> {{< /hint >}}

Reviewer: I think it would be good to have such common disclaimer in all plugins to explain their status.

Author: don't know how to use hints and refs inside shortcodes
` template: shortcodes/plugin-not-ready.html:2: unexpected "<" in command`

Reviewer: Let's do it in another issue.

Author: ok; found only solutions with a lot of coding around :(

Plugin creates chains of tasks for CI, encapsulating it under single gradle task.

For example, scenario "Pull Request checks".\

> Typically, you need to create multiple CI builds and wire it into chain.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, you need to create multiple CI builds and wire them into a chain.\
```

> Chain configuration(and possibly parameters) leaks to CI server settings, and you have less control over its changes inside gradle.\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chain configuration and parameters leak to CI server settings, and you have less control over their's changes inside grade. \
```

It makes sense if resources of single machine limited, but if all chain could run effectively

> (e.g. tasks runs in parallel and server has extra resources) on single machine, having all configuration in Gradle has benefits.

Reviewer: I didn't get the idea of the last two sentences. What do we want to explain? What do we lose without them?

Reviewer: My proposal:
- Show the idea of a chain through [an example](https://github.com/avito-tech/avito-android/pull/388/files#r425435432) and illustrate tasks graphically.

Reviewer 2: We can compare two opposite setups: chain inside Gradle and chain inside TeamCity

## Getting started

Apply the plugin in the app's `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
plugins {
    id("com.avito.android.cd")
}
```

> There are no restriction in applying plugin to root project, and it could make sense for "global repo checks"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin can be applied to a root project or any module.
```

I think we don't have to stress on restriction, but rather focus on user scenarios.

{{%plugins-setup%}}

> 

Reviewer: Is this the end of "Getting started"?
It has to show how to make the smallest working example.

https://avito-tech.github.io/avito-android/docs/contributing/docs/#use-appropriate-format-for-the-problem

Reviewer: My proposal: 
- Show a simple chain with one or two steps.
- Show how to run those tasks in CLI and what will be executed

## Builds

> First of all name your chain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, name your chain:
```

Reviewer 2: It's better to replace First of all by `1.` or `-`

Author: there are no list below, so it's not applicable

```groovy
builds {
    myChain {
       ...
    }
}
```

> ### Avito example chains

Reviewer: In the tutorial we have to show the smallest working example.
These examples don't needed to make it.

https://avito-tech.github.io/avito-android/docs/contributing/docs/#use-appropriate-format-for-the-problem

> - localCheck - compilation checks for local run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `localCheck` - compilation checks for local run
```

We need to use ` for exact names.

Reviewer 2: We should extend `compilation checks` to compile, run linters

> - fastCheck - fast as possible checks for Pull Request in CI scenario, must conform [CI agreement]({{< ref "/docs/ci/CIValues.md" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fastCheck` - as fast as possible checks for Pull Request. It must conform [CI agreement]({{< ref "/docs/ci/CIValues.md" >}})
```

Reviewer 2: I think the name `fastCheck` could be misinterpreted. The logic of naming isn't clear.
If we use `prCheck` consumers may understand the idea better.

Reviewer: Agree

Author: yep, but if we change it here, it will add more confusion inside Avito, because it is named fastCheck there. Could change however after hardcoded chains removing

> - fullCheck - full as possible checks to be run after merges, non-blocking, could be slow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fullCheck` - as full as possible checks to be run after merges, non-blocking, could be slow
```

> - release - chain to release our app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `release` - chain to release our app
```

> ## Steps

Reviewer: I think we could move this content to an introduction to explain the idea of chains.

Author: I need some time to word it correctly; so just simplified explanation for now

### Using impact analysis in step

> Step could use [Impact analysis]({{< ref "/docs/ci/ImpactAnalysis.md" >}})(disabled by default):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step could use [Impact analysis]({{< ref "/docs/ci/ImpactAnalysis.md" >}}). It is disabled by default.
```

Braces are a bit harder for reading.

}
```

> First argument registers key, that can be used in upload steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first argument is a key for upload steps.
```
